ACID Properties in DBMS

==>DBMS is the management of data that should remain integrated when any changes are done in it. It is because if the integrity of the data is affected, whole data will get disturbed and corrupted. Therefore, to maintain the integrity of the data, there are four properties described in the database management system, which are known as the ACID properties. 
==>The ACID properties are meant for the transaction that goes through a different group of tasks, and there we come to see the role of the ACID properties.

Atomicity:

By this, we mean that either the entire transaction takes place at once or doesn’t happen at all. There is no midway i.e. transactions do not occur partially. Each transaction is considered as one unit and either runs to completion or is not executed at all. It involves the following two operations. 
—Abort: If a transaction aborts, changes made to the database are not visible. 
—Commit: If a transaction commits, changes made are visible. 
Atomicity is also known as the ‘All or nothing rule’. 

ex:
when the amount loses atomicity, then in the bank systems, this becomes a huge issue, and so the atomicity is the main focus in the bank systems.

2) Consistency

The word consistency means that the value should remain preserved always. In DBMS, the integrity of the data should be maintained, which means if a change in the database is made, it should remain preserved always. In the case of transactions, the integrity of the data is very essential so that the database remains consistent before and after the transaction. The data should always be correct.

3)Isolation
This property ensures that multiple transactions can occur concurrently without leading to the inconsistency of the database state. Transactions occur independently without interference. Changes occurring in a particular transaction will not be visible to any other transaction until that particular change in that transaction is written to memory or has been committed. 
In the case of transactions, when two or more transactions occur simultaneously, the consistency should remain maintained. Any changes that occur in any particular transaction will not be seen by other transactions until the change is not committed in the memory.

Durability: 

Durability ensures the permanency of something. In DBMS, the term durability ensures that the data after the successful execution of the operation becomes permanent in the database. The durability of the data should be so perfect that even if the system fails or leads to a crash, the database still survives. However, if gets lost, it becomes the responsibility of the recovery manager for ensuring the durability of the database. For committing the values, the COMMIT command must be used every time we make changes.

Therefore, the ACID property of DBMS plays a vital role in maintaining the consistency and availability of data in the database.

